# PM-32: Purposing

**Family:** Program Management  
**Class:** SP800-53  
**Keywords:** Assessment, assessment plan, assurance, availability, computer security, confidentiality, control, control assessment, cybersecurity, FISMA, information security, information system, integrity, personally identifiable information, OSCAL, Open Security Controls Assessment Language, Privacy Act, privacy controls, privacy functions, privacy requirements, Risk Management Framework, security controls, security functions, security requirements, system, system security

## Control Statement
Analyze the systems or system components supporting mission-essential services or functions are defined; supporting mission essential services or functions to ensure that the information resources are being used consistent with their intended purpose.

## Implementation Guidance
Systems are designed to support a specific mission or business function. However, over time, systems and system components may be used to support services and functions that are outside of the scope of the intended mission or business functions. This can result in exposing information resources to unintended environments and uses that can significantly increase threat exposure. In doing so, the systems are more vulnerable to compromise, which can ultimately impact the services and functions for which they were intended. This is especially impactful for mission-essential services and functions. By analyzing resource use, organizations can identify such potential exposures.

## Assessment Objectives
the systems or system components supporting mission-essential services or functions are defined; supporting mission-essential services or functions are analyzed to ensure that the information resources are being used in a manner that is consistent with their intended purpose.

## Assessment Methods
Information security program plan  privacy program plan  list of essential services and functions  organizational analysis of information resources  risk management strategy  other relevant documents or records. Organizational personnel with information security, privacy, and supply chain risk management program responsibilities

## Related Controls
- ca-7
- pl-2
- ra-3
- ra-9

---
*NIST SP 800-53 Rev 5 Control*
