# IA-12.5: Address Confirmation

**Family:** Identification and Authentication  
**Class:** SP800-53-enhancement  
**Keywords:** Assessment, assessment plan, assurance, availability, computer security, confidentiality, control, control assessment, cybersecurity, FISMA, information security, information system, integrity, personally identifiable information, OSCAL, Open Security Controls Assessment Language, Privacy Act, privacy controls, privacy functions, privacy requirements, Risk Management Framework, security controls, security functions, security requirements, system, system security

## Control Statement
Require that a registration code be delivered through an out-of-band channel to verify the users address (physical or digital) of record.

## Implementation Guidance
To make it more difficult for adversaries to pose as legitimate users during the identity proofing process, organizations can use out-of-band methods to ensure that the individual associated with an address of record is the same individual that participated in the registration. Confirmation can take the form of a temporary enrollment code or a notice of proofing. The delivery address for these artifacts is obtained from records and not self-asserted by the user. The address can include a physical or digital address. A home address is an example of a physical address. Email addresses and telephone numbers are examples of digital addresses.

## Assessment Objectives
a registration code is delivered through an out-of-band channel to verify the user’s address (physical or digital) of record.

## Assessment Methods
Identification and authentication policy  procedures addressing identity proofing  system security plan  other relevant documents or records Organizational personnel with system operations responsibilities  organizational personnel with information security responsibilities  system/network administrators  system developers  organizational personnel with identification and authentication responsibilities Mechanisms supporting and/or implementing identification and authentication capabilities

## Related Controls
- ia-12

---
*NIST SP 800-53 Rev 5 Control*
